ever since humanity took to the skies
with the birds we've been pushing our
limits we built the biggest the baddest
the fastest aircraft but how do
passenger aircraft rank among our most
incredible record breakers well let's
see the fastest crewed aircraft ever was
the x-15 it set the record it's held for
over 50 years by reaching Mach 6 point 7
Mach 1 is the speed of sound so this
thing was going way faster than it takes
your voice to reach her friend's ear in
a conversation four thousand five
hundred twenty miles per hour this plane
could cover the length of two and a half
Burj Khalifa's in a second boom just
like that but it couldn't take off by
itself a mothership had to carry it up
and drop launch it from the sky so
technically the x-15 was a crewed rocket
not entirely an airplane alright when
that could take off on its own the
Lockheed sr-71 blackbird a supersonic
jet with a top speed of almost 2200
miles per hour it went so fast its
surface would heat up well over 500
degrees close to a thousand degrees near
the engine not only could you fry an egg
on it you probably burn your breakfast
black in fact the jets parts were
designed a little smaller they expanded
from the heat and fits snuggly
mid-flight but when it was on the ground
the pieces didn't fit so the aircraft
regularly leaked fuel so what about
regular passenger airplanes the kind we
all use to travel most of them top out
at 575 miles per hour in 2018 Norwegian
Airlines broke the transatlantic speed
record when they got their Boeing 787-9
Dreamliner up to 776 miles per hour the
plane made it from New York to London in
5 hours and 13 minutes shaving off
almost 2 hours from the regular flight
time in February 2020 anew record was
set by a British Airways Boeing 747 the
same route in four hours and 56 minutes
with a max speed of 825 miles or
imagine an archer shooting an arrow now
speed that up about four times that's
how fast this airliner was going now
these were standard commercial airplanes
no rocket boosters here so how could
they fly so fast in both cases they
caught a tail wind of over 200 miles per
hour
such winds are called jet streams they
blow only at high altitudes where these
airliners were flying and polar jet
streams in the north are a bit stronger
than the tropical ones but don't get
your hopes up of traveling to New York
from London with a tailwind boost jet
streams only go east because of the
Earth's counterclockwise rotation
mind-boggling that giant metal birds can
lift up and fly so fast from the air
that's why their wings are shaped with a
curve on top the air stream over the
wing travels faster than below it the
faster the air moves the less pressure
it has so more pressure in the slower
air under the wing pushes the aircraft
up the slower the plane moves the less
lift is generated the minimum possible
is called stall speed but an Antonov
an-2 has no stall speed meaning with a
fast enough front wind it could
technically fly backward and in the case
of engine failure it can move so slowly
that it almost parachutes to the ground
the slowest airplane in history was the
gossamer albatross it at a top speed of
18 miles per hour and it was human
powered the average adult could outrun
this plane at a short distance same
can't be said about the slowest motored
plane the bloop 3 it goes 25 miles per
hour and you'd need to be a top Olympic
runner to beat it in a race the slowest
jet-powered plane was the peasy LM 15
the noisy thing topped out at 120 miles
per hour
another Antonov record holder is the
an-225 Mariah
it's the largest aircraft by weight
according to Guinness it's wingspan
could fit the Statue of Liberty and it's
almost six stories tall but the real
shock is its total payload this thing
can hold 560 thousand
of cargo that's three space shuttles 20
crew ship anchors 50 cars hey take your
pick this behemoth uses six engines and
32 wheels for takeoff and landing the
largest wingspan ever belongs to the
strata launch 385 feet from tip to tip
you could lay 2 towers of Pisa or 8 semi
trucks across it that massive wingspan
also holds two fuselages underneath
making this aircraft look like two
planes holding hands through the sky
the current longest airplane in
operation is the Boeing 747-8 with it's
astonishing length of 250 feet that
would be five semis if you were counting
the Airbus a380 is the largest passenger
airliner by maximum seat capacity it can
hold 853 people there are plenty of
small towns whose entire population
could fit on this plane the most
expensive play never was the b-2 spirit
a single aircraft cost two point 1
billion dollars in miles that's to the
moon and back 4400 times but don't
forget you need an extra 135 thousand
dollars to operate the thing for just
one hour the cheapest brand-new ready to
fly plane will cost you only around
$60,000 there are cars more expensive
than that in 2019 to UK pilots set the
record of 16 countries visited on an
airplane within 24 hours the men said it
took massive planning to achieve the
shortest takeoff on record of 14 feet
and 7 inches was broken in 2017 on a
highly modified airplane called a Piper
Cub it was 78 years old when it's at the
record the shortest scheduled flight you
can take is from Westray to Papa Westray
in Scotland's Orkney Isles your plane
will cover 1.7 miles and you'll be in
the air for under two minutes
the longest scheduled flight is from
Singapore to Newark New Jersey operated
by Singapore Airlines it takes 18 and a
half hours to cover 9,500 34 miles
that's more than the Earth's diameter at
the equator then there's the ornithopter
an aircraft that flaps its wings to fly
the first successful continuous flight
in one of those happened in 2010 the so
called Snowbird covered 145 feet in
under 20 seconds nothing compared to the
common Swift it holds the record for the
longest continuous flight time of any
bird some can fly half a year without
stopping whoo